OSDOCS-2012 Draft start for WMCO 3.x release notes (#32545)
openshift/openshift-docs: windows_containers/windows-containers-release-notes-3-x.adoc

[id="wmco-3-0-0"]
== Release notes for Red Hat Windows Machine Config Operator 3.0.0

This release of the WMCO provides bug fixes and enhancements for running Windows compute nodes in an {product-title} cluster. The components of the WMCO 3.0.0 were released in link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2021:xxxx[RHBA-2021:xxxx].

// Replace above advisory link when known (available from Errata tool once live ID is assigned)

WMCO supports self-managed clusters built using installer-provisioned infrastructure running on the following cloud providers:

// The content below may require updates based on BYOH epic.

* Amazon Web Services (AWS)
* Microsoft Azure
* VMware vSphere

The following Windows Server operating systems are supported in this release of the WMCO, depending on which platform your cluster is installed on:

[cols="1,4",options="header"]
|===

|WMCO platform
|Windows Server version

|AWS

> |Windows Server Long-Term Servicing Channel (LTSC): Windows Server 2019

Reviewer: If I'm not mistaken, in AWS with CustomVXLANPort, Windows Server 2004 (SAC) is supported.

Author: Would that change the value to "Windows Server 2004 (SAC)?"

Reviewer 2: Can't we just link to the [pre-requisites](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/windows_containers/understanding-windows-container-workloads.html#wmco-prerequisites_understanding-windows-container-workloads) which clear explains what is supported?

|Azure
|Windows Server Long-Term Servicing Channel (LTSC): Windows Server 2019

|vSphere

> |Windows Server Semi-Annual Channel (SAC): Windows Server 2004 with link:https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/august-11-2020-kb4566782-os-build-19041-450-ec5cf4b6-86ed-b0d3-539c-5fbe1b17f56a[Microsoft patch KB4566782]

Reviewer: Windows Server Semi-Annual Channel (SAC): Windows Server 2004  includes the patch already.

Author: So, does that mean that I don't need to note this?

Reviewer: Probably, let's run it by the Team first. 

Pointed that out, because should be explicit that the manual installation of the patch KB4566782 is not required with Windows Server Semi-Annual Channel (SAC): Windows Server 2004.

Reviewer 2: This needs to be included. Someone could potentially bring up a 2004 instance without this patch especially when creating a golden image on vSphere.

|===

[IMPORTANT]
====
Running Windows container workloads is not supported for clusters in a restricted network or disconnected environment.
====

> Version 3.x of the WMCO is only compatible with {product-title} 4.8.

Reviewer: WMCO 3.x is only compatible...

[id="wmco-3-0-0-improvements"]
=== New features and improvements

This release adds the following new features and improvements.

// Addresses Github #32620 - https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/32620
==== Clarified limits on custom VXLAN port selection

Users may not select a custom VXLAN port when using the latest version of Windows server.

// Addresses WINC-551 - https://github.com/openshift/windows-machine-config-operator/pull/279
==== Added support for autoscaling Windows nodes

After defining and deploying a ClusterAutoscaler, MachineSet, and a MachineAutoscaler, then

> // not sure what else goes here

Author: Definitely, but I guess my biggest question is why would a customer want to use this functionality. It can be very high level and just a single sentence. I'm not sure I understand it enough to answer that though.

> // not sure what else goes here

Reviewer 3: Cluster autoscaling is a provider-agnostic solution to dynamic computing resource requirements. Cluster autoscaling automatically scales up or down the number of machines cluster to meet its current deployment needs, keeping workloads available and pruning unused resources when possible.

* Previously, empty IP address values in the load balancer's ingress would break the data path and the Windows service would be unreachable. This issue was due to the kube-proxy component considering empty IP address values in the ingress as invalid. Now, the Windows service is reachable even if the IP address value is empty. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1946538[**BZ#1946538**])

* Previously, when the WMCO configured Windows instances, if the hybrid-overlay or kube-proxy components failed, the node might report itself as `Ready`. Now, the error is detected and the node reports itself as `NotReady`. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1971745[**BZ#1971745**])

* Previously, when you created a Windows pod with a projected volume, the pod would remain stuck in the "ContainerCreating" phase. Now, the Windows pod creation successfully proceeds to the "Running" phase. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1953692[**BZ#1953692**])

=== RHSA-2021:76465-04 - Windows Container support for {product-title} security update

[id="wmco-3-0-0-known-issues"]

> === Known issues

Reviewer: Consider removing empty sections

Reviewer 4: We may need to discuss this and add to it.

Author: This is still a work in progress in my view, so if we have no known fixes we can remove later.

> [id="windows-containers-release-notes-3-x"]

Reviewer 2: This needs a known issue section, where we should mention:
> Users running WMCO 2.0.2 and below will have to uninstall the operator and reinstall WMCO 3.0.0 to work around https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1983153

cc: @mansikulkarni96

[id="wmco-3-0-0"]
== Release notes for Red Hat Windows Machine Config Operator 3.0.0

This release of the WMCO provides bug fixes and enhancements for running Windows compute nodes in an {product-title} cluster. The components of the WMCO 3.0.0 were released in link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2021:3001[RHSA-2021:3001-05].

include::modules/wmco-prerequisites.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/wmco-prerequisites.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====
Running Windows container workloads is not supported for clusters in a restricted network or disconnected environment.
====

Version 3.x of the WMCO is only compatible with {product-title} 4.8.

[id="wmco-3-0-0-improvements"]
=== New features and improvements

This release adds the following new features and improvements.

// Addresses Github #32620 - https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/32620
==== Clarified limits on custom VXLAN port selection

> Users may not select a custom VXLAN port when using the latest version of Windows server.

Reviewer 2: I suggest saying `must not` rather than `may not`

* Previously, The load balancer service would become unstable when the backing deployment had multiple pods scheduled on different Windows nodes. This issue has been fixed. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1905950[**BZ#1905950**])

> * Previously, WMCO added the public key annotation, `windowsmachineconfig.openshift.io/pub-key-hash`, to Linux nodes. Now, WMCO no longer adds an annotation. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1930791[**BZ#1930791**])

Reviewer 2: I would clarify and say `Now, WMCO no longer adds an annotation to Linux nodes`. We still add them to Windows nodes.

[id="wmco-3-0-0"]
== Release notes for Red Hat Windows Machine Config Operator 3.0.0

This release of the WMCO provides bug fixes and enhancements for running Windows compute nodes in an {product-title} cluster. The components of the WMCO 3.0.0 were released in link:https://errata.devel.redhat.com/advisory/76465[RHSA-2021:76465-05].

include::modules/wmco-prerequisites.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/wmco-prerequisites.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====
Running Windows container workloads is not supported for clusters in a restricted network or disconnected environment.
====

Version 3.x of the WMCO is only compatible with {product-title} 4.8.

[id="wmco-3-0-0-improvements"]
=== New features and improvements

This release adds the following new features and improvements.

// Addresses Github #32620 - https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/32620
==== Clarified limits on custom VXLAN port selection

Users may not select a custom VXLAN port when using the latest version of Windows server.

[id="wmco-3-0-0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, The load balancer service would become unstable when the backing deployment had multiple pods scheduled on different Windows nodes. This issue has been fixed. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1905950[**BZ#1905950**])

Reviewer 5: Small edit. "The" should be lowercased. Instead of, "Previously, **T**he load balancer...." use "Previously, **t**he load balancer.."

* Previously, the kube-proxy service would crash upon the creation of a load balancer service when the backing development had multiple pods scheduled on different Windows nodes. This issue has now been fixed. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1939968[**BZ#1939968**])

* Previously, the `windows_exporter` component reported various metrics as `windows_*`. This error caused some of the node-level metrics that provide insight into the nodes through telemetry services to go unreported. Now, the componets export correctly showing all of the expected metrics. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1948037[**BZ#1948037**])

=== RHSA-2021:76465-04 - Windows Container support for {product-title} security update

As part of the previously noted bug fix (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1946538[**BZ#1946538**]), an update for Windows kube-proxy is now available for Red Hat Windows Machine Config Operator 2.0.1. Details of the update are documented in the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2021:2130[RHSA-2021:2130] advisory.

[id="wmco-3-0-0-known-issues"]

> === Known issues

Reviewer 5: The Known issues section is empty. Should a statement be added that there are no issues or should the heading be removed (depending on current pattern)?

* Previously, WMCO added the public key annotation, `windowsmachineconfig.openshift.io/pub-key-hash`, to Linux nodes. Now, WMCO no longer adds an annotation to Linux nodes. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1930791[**BZ#1930791**])

* Previously, when users provided an invalid private key, the Windows Machine Config Operator (WMCO) would fail. With this update, the WMCO produces an error alerting the user of an invalid key. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1929579[*BZ#1929579*])

* Previously, the kube-proxy service would crash upon the creation of a load balancer service when the backing development had multiple pods scheduled on different Windows nodes. This issue has now been fixed. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1939968[**BZ#1939968**])

* Previously, the `windows_exporter` component reported various metrics as `windows_*`. This error caused some of the node-level metrics that provide insight into the nodes through telemetry services to go unreported. Now, the componets export correctly showing all of the expected metrics. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1948037[**BZ#1948037**])

> === RHSA-2021:76465-04 - Windows Container support for {product-title} security update

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
=== RHSA-2021:3001 - Windows Container support for {product-title} security update
```
Use the Live ID rather than the temporary ID. [76465](https://errata.devel.redhat.com/advisory/76465) seems to be RHSA-2021:3001

> As part of the previously noted bug fix (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1946538[**BZ#1946538**]), an update for Windows kube-proxy is now available for Red Hat Windows Machine Config Operator 2.0.1. Details of the update are documented in the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2021:2130[RHSA-2021:2130] advisory.

Reviewer 6: I'm a bit confused about this v2 content's inclusion, and the reference to a v2 advisory under a v3 advisory header.

Author: @aravindhp Should we keep this included?

Reviewer 2: I will defer to whatever pattern the docs team has been following regarding maintaining advisories across versions.

Reviewer 6: I think the main thing to consider is: Is this relevant to v3 users? If not, I would lean towards removing it. v2 users should be getting relevant info in the v2 Rel Notes. But I don't really know enough about WinC to make an educated statement on this case :)

Reviewer 2: This is not relevant to v3 users given it was fixed in the v2 timeframe.

[id="wmco-3-0-0-known-issues"]
=== Known issues

> * The filesystem graphs available in the web console do not display for Windows nodes. This is caused by changes in the filesystem queries. This will be fixed in a future release of WMCO. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1930347[*BZ#1930347*])

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* The file system graphs available in the web console do not display for Windows nodes. This is caused by changes in the file system queries. This will be fixed in a future release of WMCO. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1930347[*BZ#1930347*])
```

[id="wmco-3-0-0"]
== Release notes for Red Hat Windows Machine Config Operator 3.0.0

This release of the WMCO provides bug fixes and enhancements for running Windows compute nodes in an {product-title} cluster. The components of the WMCO 3.0.0 were released in link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2021:xxxx[RHBA-2021:xxxx].

include::modules/wmco-prerequisites.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====
Running Windows container workloads is not supported for clusters in a restricted network or disconnected environment.
====

Version 3.x of the WMCO is only compatible with {product-title} 4.8.

[id="wmco-3-0-0-improvements"]
=== New features and improvements

This release adds the following new features and improvements.

// Addresses Github #32620 - https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/32620
==== Clarified limits on custom VXLAN port selection

> Users may not select a custom VXLAN port when using the latest version of Windows server.

Reviewer 2: Do we really need to call this out here? This has been the case WMCO 1.x but just that users have not been grokking it correctly.

Author: Since we merged in the updates for 3.x, it can't hurt to spell this out, and then leave it here.

// Addresses WINC-551 - https://github.com/openshift/windows-machine-config-operator/pull/279
==== Added support for autoscaling Windows nodes

In this release, Windows nodes now support cluster autoscaling. Cluster autoscaling automatically scales up or down the number of machines cluster to meet its current deployment needs, keeping workloads available and pruning unused resources when possible.

> 

Reviewer 2: This should be addressed in https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/32773. This has been available since WMCO 2.x

[id="wmco-3-0-0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, The load balancer service would become unstable when you would scale additional Windows nodes. Now, the load balancer service has been stabilized to allow for adding multiple Windows nodes without erratic performance. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1905950[**BZ#1905950**])

Reviewer 2: I suggest something along the lines of:
> Previously, a load balancer service would become unstable when the backing Deployment had multiple Pods scheduled on different Windows nodes. This issue has now been fixed.

* (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1919391[**BZ#1919391**])

* (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1924559[**BZ#1924559**])

> * Previously, when you replaced a cloud-private-key secret with a new private key, the WMCO patched pub-key-has with an annotation to the Linux node as well as the master and worker node. Now, when you change this private key, no annotation is added. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1930791[**BZ#1930791**])

Reviewer 2: I suggest something along the lines of:
> Previously, WMCO was adding the public key annotation, windowsmachineconfig.openshift.io/pub-key-hash, to Linux nodes. This no longer happens.

> * Previously, the kube-proxy service would terminate unexpectedly after the load balancer is created if you created the load balancer after the Windows pods begin running. Now, the kube-proxy service does not crash when recreating the load balancer service. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1939968[**BZ#1939968**])

Reviewer 2: I suggest something along the lines of:
>Previously, the kube-proxy service would crash upon the creation of a load balancer service when the backing Deployment had multiple Pods scheduled on different Windows nodes. This issue has now been fixed.

* Previously, the `windows_exporter` component reported various metrics as `windows_*`. This error caused some of the node-level metrics that provide insight into the nodes through telemetry services to go unreported. Now, the componets export correctly showing all of the expected metrics. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1948037[**BZ#1948037**])

> * Previously, empty IP address values in the load balancer's ingress would break the data path and the Windows service would be unreachable. This issue was due to the kube-proxy component considering empty IP address values in the ingress as invalid. Now, the Windows service is reachable even if the IP address value is empty. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1946538[**BZ#1946538**])

Reviewer 2: [This comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/34130#discussion_r661766906) applies here too

> * Previously, when the WMCO configured Windows instances, if the hybrid-overlay or kube-proxy components failed, the node might report itself as `Ready`. Now, the error is detected and the node reports itself as `NotReady`. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1971745[**BZ#1971745**])

Reviewer 2: PS: This was fixed in 2.0.1. Do we typically call that out here also?

> * Previously, when you created a Windows pod with a projected volume, the pod would remain stuck in the "ContainerCreating" phase. Now, the Windows pod creation successfully proceeds to the "Running" phase. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1953692[**BZ#1953692**])

Reviewer 2: Do you release note bugs that were found before releasing the product? This bug can never be seen in the field.

Author: If this won't be seen, we can remove it. It's up to the team what should be highlighted, and I think it's typically stuff that would intrigue users to upgrade.
